docs: grab workload version in k8s tutorial (#2559)
canonical/operator: docs/tutorial/from-zero-to-hero-write-your-first-kubernetes-charm/make-your-charm-configurable.md

        # service if required.
        self.container.replan()
        logger.info(f"Replanned with '{self.pebble_service_name}' service")
    except (ops.pebble.APIError, ops.pebble.ConnectionError) as e:
        logger.info("Unable to connect to Pebble: %s", e)
        self.unit.status = ops.MaintenanceStatus("Waiting for Pebble in workload container")
        return
    try:
        version = fastapi_demo.get_version(config.server_port)
    except RuntimeError as version_e:
        logger.error("Failed to get workload version: %s", version_e)
        self.unit.status = ops.BlockedStatus(
            "Failed to get version from server: check port config"
        )

>         return

Reviewer: If this isn't the first time we've run replan workload successfully (e.g. the container restarted), couldn't the workload version already be set at this point? The blocked status message in combination with the version field being populated in status could be confusing UX. Maybe we should unset the version in a case like this, e.g. `self.unit.set_workload_version("")`. I'm not sure though. @tonyandrewmeyer do you have a sense for what the best practice would be here?

Reviewer: Per discussion, there's nothing the user or the charm can do to to resolve this error, so we should not try/except, and just let the error bubble up instead. Ops will immediately put the charm in error status immediately, bypassing collect status entirely.

Reviewer: In principle a more holistic charm might check the workload health like this whenever it runs. For simplicity for now it seems reasonable for us only to check in this event.

Author: Thank you for putting the summary here James. I will remove the try/except for `get_version` from this tutorial.

    self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()

>     self.unit.set_workload_version(version)

Reviewer: Very minor, but perhaps `self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()` should be the very last line?

Author: Yep, initially `self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()` is the last line.

However, we decided that putting `self.unit.set_workload_version(version)` last would simplify the tutorial, and went with it. 

In chapter 1, section `Set the workload version`, we can simply write

``````
In `src/charm.py`, append the following lines to the `_on_demo_server_pebble_ready` function:

```python
# Set the workload version of this charm.
version = fastapi_demo.get_version(port=8000)
self.unit.set_workload_version(version)
```
``````

And this code propagated into Chapter 2 as you see here, and I kept it like that.

Reviewer: It's unlikely to happen in practice, but it would be odd to blip to `active` before potentially going to `error` if `get_version` failed. Even though we'll ultimately recommend using the collect status pattern instead of assigning statuses directly, I think it's good to model best practices for setting statuses directly. The tutorial could read: ``In `src/charm.py`, add the following lines to the `_on_demo_server_pebble_ready` function before the final `self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()`:``

Reviewer 2: I can't remember whether we deliberately wanted `self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()` before setting the version, but James's recommendation sounds reasonable to me.

Author: I traced the changes back to the beginning. The decision to have `self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()` before setting the version were suggested by Ben from our 1:1.

I agree that keeping the tutorial with best practices is the right way. And James's suggestion is great. I will change it.

        # service if required.
        self.container.replan()
        logger.info(f"Replanned with '{self.pebble_service_name}' service")
    except (ops.pebble.APIError, ops.pebble.ConnectionError) as e:
        logger.info("Unable to connect to Pebble: %s", e)
        self.unit.status = ops.MaintenanceStatus("Waiting for Pebble in workload container")
        return

> 

Reviewer 2: I feel we can drop the blank line, and the one after try/except, to match the rest of the function

```suggestion
```

Author: Thanks for the catch. That's my habit of adding newlines after try/catch and such :smile:, I should have kept the original style. 

I have fixed it in https://github.com/canonical/operator/pull/2559/commits/49e6a120fd682e8fa0a8c1bae5113c402727201a.

    try:
        version = fastapi_demo.get_version(config.server_port)
    except RuntimeError as version_e:
        logger.error("Failed to get workload version: %s", version_e)
        self.unit.status = ops.BlockedStatus(
            "Failed to get version from server: check port config"
        )
        return

    self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()
    self.unit.set_workload_version(version)
```

When the config is loaded as part of creating the Pebble layer, if the config is invalid (in our case, if the port is set to 22), then a `ValueError` will be raised. The `_replan_workload` method handles that by logging the error and setting the status of the unit to blocked, letting the Juju user know that they need to take action.

> We also add error handling for getting the workload version. If we cannot access the workload to get its version, a `RuntimeError` will be raised. The `_replan_workload` method will log the error, and set the unit status to `blocked` with a message. It lets the Juju user know that they need to check the port configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also add error handling for getting the workload version. If we cannot access the workload to get its version, a `RuntimeError` will be raised. The `_replan_workload` method will log the error, and set the unit status to `blocked` with a message. This lets the Juju user know that they need to check the port configuration.
```

        # service if required.
        self.container.replan()
        logger.info(f"Replanned with '{self.pebble_service_name}' service")
    except (ops.pebble.APIError, ops.pebble.ConnectionError) as e:
        logger.info("Unable to connect to Pebble: %s", e)
        self.unit.status = ops.MaintenanceStatus("Waiting for Pebble in workload container")
        return

    try:
        version = fastapi_demo.get_version(config.server_port)

>     except (urllib.error.URLError, json.JSONDecodeError) as version_e:

Reviewer 2: Would it be more practical to put the error handling inside the function in the workload module, perhaps returning a runtime error on failure? Then we wouldn't need to import `json` and `urllib.error` in the charm.

        logger.error(
            "Failed to get version from the server: %s. Please double check your port config",
            version_e,
        )

>         self.unit.status = ops.BlockedStatus(str(version_e))

Reviewer 2: I think it's best to use a hardcoded status string here. Blocked status implies that the Juju user should be able to unblock the charm by themself, and ideally the message should give some indication of how.

As I write this, now I'm wondering whether blocked is really right. I'd like to hear other opinions - but here's what I'm thinking:

- If getting the version fails because we can't connect, it might be that the workload container is temporarily unavailable. The charm should go into Maintenance status with an appropriate message. The user needs to wait.
- If we got the version, but we couldn't decode it, there's nothing the user can do. We shouldn't catch the error; we should let the charm go into Error state. (The user needs to bug the charm developer about it.)

Reviewer 3: I discussed this a bit with Nhan, and a couple of things:

- Agreed it's better to use a hard-coded message, more like the log message, for example: "Failed to get version from server: check port config"
- I don't think Maintenance status would be good here. That means we the charm is doing some maintenance and we *know* it's going to come right in a minute. But here it might never come right until they fix the port. So I'd recommend keeping BlockedStatus
- Agreed re decoding being a hard error -- I think we should just omit the JSONDecodeError and let that one bubble up

        return

    self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()
    self.unit.set_workload_version(version)
```

When the config is loaded as part of creating the Pebble layer, if the config is invalid (in our case, if the port is set to 22), then a `ValueError` will be raised. The `_replan_workload` method handles that by logging the error and setting the status of the unit to blocked, letting the Juju user know that they need to take action.

> We also add error handling for getting the workload version. If the charm fails to obtain a valid version number, we set the unit status to blocked. This lets the Juju user know that either the charm code or the workload application behaved unexpectedly.

Reviewer 2: This will need updating if the error handling strategy changes (which I think it should)

First, we'll add a test that sets the port in the input state and asserts that the port is used in the service's command in the container layer:

```python

> def test_config_changed(mock_version):

Reviewer 2: [Continuing discussion from another comment]

I agree that we need `mock_version` here. Because `_on_config_changed` calls `_replan_workload`, which gets the workload version.

I think it would be worth adding a brief sentence or two immediately after the code block, to explain why `mock_version` is needed in this instance. Then don't mention it again for the rest of the tutorial.

Author: Thanks. I have added a small paragraph for this. See https://github.com/canonical/operator/pull/2559/commits/54d186ea5aea4e1eacb92b0dd56faf74c95a4a72

    assert "--port=8080" in command
```

> We needs the `mock_version` fixture because `_on_config_changed` calls `_replan_workload`, which gets the workload version by `get_version`. The fixture patches `get_version` to avoid making a real HTTP call and make this unit test deterministic.

Reviewer 2: A few minor suggestions for readability

```suggestion
We need the `mock_version` fixture because `_on_config_changed` calls `_replan_workload`, which gets the workload version using `fastapi_demo.get_version`. The fixture patches `get_version` to avoid making a real HTTP call, so that the this unit test deterministic.
```
